What about CORS?
>> For CORS, so if you don't know
what CORS is, CORS, C-O-R-S,
cross-origin resource sharing.
It's a security policy that browsers
have implemented to prevent websites
from accessing information from servers
that aren't part of the same domain.
So a server can implement.
So what the browser will do is
something called a pre-flight check,
which basically means, let's say you
did a fetch request in the browser.
Before that fetch request, the browser
will actually go to that location first
and do an options check, options method.
Let's say you try to do a GET request.
It'll first say,
let me do an options request first just
to see what the server is capable of.
So then a server can respond
back to that options request and
be like, yeah, here,
we support only these domains.
We support only these methods.
So then the browser will get that back.
And if it doesn't see the domain that
you're on or the IP that you're on
as supported, then your request
will get blocked for CORS issue.
So it's just a way to protect
websites through the browser.
So as someone who's implementing a server,
if you want anyone to be able to access
your server, and
this doesn't count like authentication.
You're still gonna add authentication.
This is just like just even being able
to knock on your door, basically.
You have to implement CORS.
So you have to implement a strategy there.
So CORS is a OPTIONS request.
So there's nothing stopping you from
just doing OPTIONS like this, And
sending back headers.
So I think the headers you want, actually,
I know exactly where that is in here,
I was just reading it, so let's see.
CORS, here we go, damn, yeah,
so, looks like you can actually
just do a GET request here.
So basically, the way you
respond to CORS is typically you
tell the browser what is possible
by these access control headers.
So you can say
Access-Control-Allow-Origin.
This means, yeah,
anybody can knock on my door, basically.
These are the messages they can send me,
and
these are the headers that
they are allowed to send.
And then now, if the browser thinks
this is okay, which in this case,
it should be cuz this is pretty much
everything, I guess if you said patch,
we did a patch request, this will fail,
cuz it doesn't allow patch.
Then, yeah, you should be good to go.
This doesn't matter if you're doing
server-to-server communication.
Only browsers implement CORS.
So if you have one server
talking to another server,
CORS doesn't matter cuz only
browsers look for CORS.
>> And I think it also only
matters cross-domain, right?
If you're on the same app,
it doesn't matter.
>> It only matters for cross-domain
if you are on the same domain.
If your API is on yourapp.com and
your website is also on yourapp.com, or
even app.yourapp.com,
it probably doesn't matter.
It's only for
cross-origin resource sharing, so
it has to be a different domain.
So the question was what
are the differences between API routes in
the pages directory versus API
routes in the app directory?
So last time I taught this course
was when 13 first came out and
they switched the pages over
to the app directory, but
they did not switch the API
over to the app directory.
So you still had to use the pages folder
just to use an API, which was weird.
So you had an app folder
with all your pages, and
then a pages folder with your API.
So it's very, very weird.
You guys aren't getting that CORS today.
So the difference other than that,
before Next.js 13 came out was that
it basically looked like this, right?
The difference was you have an api folder,
and then in that api folder,
I wouldn't have to make another folder for
a segment, I could just make a filename.
So let's say I wanted a route called todo.
So in the new api folder, I have to
make a new folder called todo, and
then put a route in it.
But in the old pages api folder, I could
just come to the root of the api and
just say todo.ts.
And that would make
a route called /api/todo.
It'd be the name of the file.
The same thing with pages.
I wouldn't have to do page.tsx,
I would just say spa.tsx, and
that would be the page.
So that would be the difference,
and then you'd come in here and
you get a function that looks like this,
right?
You have a function that says,
usually people call it handler.
You'll get a request and
a response that's passed in.
And then you could do whatever
you want here, right?
And then you just export this.
You can only export a default,
and that was it.
And then anything like handling
different methods, that'd be on you.
That'd be like if req.method === 'GET',
then do this thing, right?
And then if equals POST,
then do this thing.
You'd have to do that
yourself in the code.
So that's the difference.
We don't have to write that logic for
routing on methods, and
we can only make new segments with
folders now and not filenames.
And we can export
different verbs this way.
The other thing is you don't get
a response object passed into you anymore,
you can just import the response object.
And the request object is
a web standard now and
not some request object that Next.js
made that's based off Express.
So a lot of differences there, which is
another reason why I wanted to update
this course and
teach it because it's so different.
So yeah, that's the difference.
Okay, let's just implement
these API routes for our todos,
which should be pretty simple.
So we'll import our database
from @/utils/db.
And then to get all the todos,
pretty simple,
todos will be await db.todo.findMany,
like that,
and then we're gonna send this data back.
Super easy, if you wanna create a todo,
we'll just assume this is
the data that you're sending.
And then we're gonna say todo is await
db.todo.create, like that, data is data,
and then we'll just send back the todo.
All right, so got those.
So we can test it out, right?
I can just go back to my browser,
run this, got all my todos.
That works pretty good, and
then I can make another one from here.
I know we need content,
so we'll pass up content,
and this is a todo from my
vs code http app thingy.
So post that,
you can see we got a new todo here.
And if I go back and refresh this,
should be at the bottom, there it is.
Any other questions on API stuff?
And when it comes to dynamic stuff,
it's the same thing, right?
So I needed /todo, /todo/id,
and it's the same thing, right?
I would just go make a new folder here,
say id, like this,
and then I would make a route in here,
and it's the same thing.
I get access to the params,
I can do pretty much the same thing that
we did in the page, and nothing's changed.
Cool, yeah, I mean, APIs are pretty
simple, and they should be.
So you might be asking yourself,
when would you use these APIs?
I think if you ask the Next.js team,
they really don't want you using these
[LAUGH] for the app that you're making.
They want you to use server actions and
server-side data fetching like we did.
Where did we do that?
In the dashboard todos page, like this.
They want you to do this, and
they're right, you should be doing this.
This is way better.
It's so much simpler.
You don't have to go across the network.
You're already on the server.
The sweet thing about doing this is now
the person's Internet is not a factor in
how fast they get the data back
because this happens on the server,
which probably has fiber Internet.
It's probably in some private
network that's really quick.
And you're not relying on someone's
network connection to determine how quick
they're gonna get the data back because
it's not happening on the client.
It's happening here,
it's not going across the wire.
So they're only waiting to
download the HTML that's rendered.
And their Internet connection is gonna
determine how fast they get the HTML back,
but not how fast that
component gets this data back.
So that's a good thing.
So then you might ask yourself,
okay, this is for
getting data, but
what about posting data, mutating data?
That's where I would use the API.
Yeah, but
then they created server actions.
So it's like you could do
everything with server actions,
although I don't recommend it.
You could, and they probably
will evolve it to where you can.
So then it's like, well, why do I even
need APIs then if I can just do mutations
with server actions,
I can do server-side fetching?
Well, sometimes you're still
gonna have client components that
need to get data and
sometimes you're still gonna have client
components that need to mutate data.
So that's where API comes in is just
when you just need client components to
do things.
And then also if your product is some
third party API that needs to offer API
access to other people on their apps,
then yeah, you need API for them.
Maybe it's not for your app.
Maybe it's for other people's apps to
consume, so you're gonna make an API.
So those would probably be the two use
cases I think the Next.js team would say
if they were here.
I think that's what they're doing
based off their documentation and
their recommendations.
And I have to genuinely agree.
Other than using server actions for
everything, I still think
client-side API calls is probably the way
to go if UI needs to be updated for
now, but that could change soon, I'm sure.